PROJ-44 - Experiment (#28)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-1/experiment.tex

This blackboard was moved intermittently to act as respectively field 1, field 2, field 3 and field 4.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{experiment-blackboard.png}
    \caption{The blackboard with the drawn positions.}
    \label{fig:experiment-blackboard}
\end{figure}
\noindent
The procedure for the experiment was based on this blackboard.
The blackboard would be placed in one of the fields defined in \autoref{fig:experiment-setup}, and we would then place the tags in certain positions on the board and record the accuracy with with the position was reported.
The tags would be placed in a position, remain there for five seconds, then be moved to the next position over the next five seconds and remain in this position for five seconds before being moved again.
This procedure was repeated until a satisfactory number of measurements had been made.
Once one field had been tested, we moved the blackboard to the next field and repeated the setup.
 
\section{Work on the data}
In \autoref{app:experiment} the data for the experiment can be seen.

> For each test we calculated the average grid, found the min and max values for \texttt{x}, \texttt{y} and \texttt{z}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each test we calculated the average grid, and found the min and max values for \texttt{x}, \texttt{y} and \texttt{z}.
```

> We also calculated the average deviation from the actual grid to the average grid to get a better view of the deviation there was.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also calculated the average deviation from the actual grid to the average grid to get a better view of the deviation.
```

> The min and max values was noted, as we might need to take this into account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max values were noted, as we might need to take them into account. 
```

> The \texttt{z} values were very inconsistent throughout the entire test, and thereby we have chosen not to analyze them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \texttt{z} values were very inconsistent throughout the entire test, and due to this and the z-axis being largely irrelevant to the game, we have chosen not to analyze them.
```

> We also do not currently need the \texttt{z} values for our program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\subsection{Precision with 1 tag} 

> The average of average deviation is 10.54 cm.

Reviewer: average of average?
Ændr det til noget som the average of all deviations

There were spikes where the max and min values spiked a lot.

> For \texttt{(30, 60)} the min x value was -33.3, which is a deviation of around 60 cm and for \texttt{(120, 0)} the y min value were -54.5 cm, which is also 54.5 cm, away from the actual data point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For \texttt{(30, 60)} the minmum $x$ value was -33.3, which is a deviation of around 60 cm and for \texttt{(120, 0)} the minimum $y$ value was -54.5 cm, which is also 54.5 cm away from the actual data point.
```

> There are more cases where the deviation of a single data point is far away.

Reviewer: hvad medfører det? får vi noget ud af den observation??

\subsection{Precision with 3 tag}
For this part of the experiment we tested the accuracy with 3 tags. 

\subsubsection{Tag 26467}
The overall average deviation for this tag was 11.2 cm.

> There were however a large deviation at \texttt{140, 90} and \texttt{(140, 120)} with 20.63 and 20.46 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There was, however, a large deviation at \texttt{140, 90} and \texttt{(140, 120)} with 20.63 and 20.46 cm.
```

> The min and max values for \texttt{x} and \texttt{y} were good, and there were never larger spikes away from the actual data point than around 25 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max values for $x$ and $y$ were good, and there were never any larger spikes from the actual data point than around 25 cm.
```

\subsubsection{Tag 26895}
The overall average deviation for this tag was 6.31 cm.
The average deviation was more accurate than expected for this tag.

> For this tag there were also not larger spikes than around 20 cm for the \texttt{x} and \texttt{y} values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tag there were also no spikes larger than around 20 cm for the $x$ and $y$ values.
```

\subsubsection{Tag 24622}

> The overall average deviation for this tag was 17.41.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overall average deviation for this tag was 17.41 cm.
```

> The first three points we tried out seemed fairly accurate, however the grid \texttt{(220, 90)} and \texttt{(220, 120)} had a large deviation of 37.53 cm and 24.4 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first three points we tested seemed fairly accurate, however the grid \texttt{(220, 90)} and \texttt{(220, 120)} had a large deviation of 37.53 cm and 24.4 cm respectively.
```

> The min and max values for \texttt{x} and \texttt{y} were larger in this than the previous, with around 40 cm deviations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max values for $x$ and $y$ were greater in this than the previous, with around 40 cm deviations.
```

Reviewer: previous hvad btw??

\subsection{Precision with 5 tag}

> For this experiment we have also noted how many data points there were sent in the 5 second intervals, as well as the average deviation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this experiment we have also noted how many data points were sent in the 5 second intervals, as well as the average deviation.
```

\subsubsection{Tag 24622}

> The average deviation for this tag was 8.42 cm and the average amount of data points each 5 seconds was around 4.28 data points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The average deviation for this tag was 8.42 cm and the average amount of data points every 5 seconds was around 4.28 data points.
```

> However, at \texttt{(180, 120)} we only received 1 data point.

Reviewer: har vi nogle tanker om hvorfro eller noget, eller er det bare et blow up-?

> The min and max values of \texttt{x} and \texttt{y} were lower than 25 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max values of $x$ and $y$ were lower than 25 cm.
```

\subsubsection{Tag 26467}
For this tag the average deviation was 11.20 cm and the average amount of data points was 3.28.

> At \texttt{140, 40} there were only one update and \texttt{140, 80} there were only 2 updates for each 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At \texttt{140, 40} there was only one update, and at \texttt{140, 80} there were only 2 updates every 5 seconds.
```

The max \texttt{x} value was around 30 cm away from the actual data point, but otherwise they did not spiked larger than that.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\subsubsection{Tag 26895}
Tag 26895 had an average deviation of 14.78 cm. 

> The deviation was higher than the two previous, however there were an average update rate of 9.57, which is more than twice as high as the two previous tags.

Reviewer: previous hvad btw

> The deviation was higher than the two previous, however there were an average update rate of 9.57, which is more than twice as high as the two previous tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deviation was higher than the two previous, however there was an average update rate of 9.57, which is more than twice as high as the two previous tags.
```

> The min and max values for min \texttt{y} and max \texttt{y} deviated at \texttt{(160, 20)}, where the min value was -28, and max value was 49.4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max values for min $y$ and max $y$ deviated at \texttt{(160, 20)}, where the min value was -28, and max value was 49.4.
```

Reviewer: er det -28cm og 49.4 cm??

\subsubsection{Tag 26901}

> The average deviation of tag 26901 was 8.56 cm, and an average data points of 10 for each 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The average deviation of tag 26901 was 8.56 cm, and it sent an average of 10 data points every 5 seconds.
```

> This tag was quite stable as there almost every time were 10 data points each 5 seconds and the average deviation never spiked higher than 12 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was quite stable, as there were 10 data points every 5 seconds almost every time, and the average deviation never spiked higher than 12 cm.
```

> Around \texttt{(220, 100)} the min y value was 51.3 cm, which is quite far away from the actual position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Around \texttt{(220, 100)} the min $y$ value was 51.3 cm, which is quite far away from the actual position.
```

> There were a few instance of large gaps between min and max values and actual grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were a few instances of large gaps between min and max values and actual grid.
```

\subsubsection{Tag 27001}

> The average deviation of this tag is 9.61 and the average amount of data points for each 5 seconds was 5.57.

Reviewer: 9.61 hvad btw

> The average deviation of this tag is 9.61 and the average amount of data points for each 5 seconds was 5.57.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The average deviation of this tag is 9.61 and the average amount of data points every 5 seconds was 5.57.
```

This was also quite consistent with the average deviation. 

> The max values for x and y was also quite consistent and there were no large deviations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The max values for $x$ and $y$ was also quite consistent and there were no large deviations.
```

> The min and max deviation of the \texttt{x} coordinate was quite accurate with a largest distance of around 20 cm, but mostly less than 10 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The min and max deviation of the $x$ coordinate was quite accurate with a largest distance of around 20 cm, but mostly less than 10 cm.
```

> The \texttt{y} coordinate fluctuated more, but was still less than 25 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The $y$ coordinate fluctuated more, but was still less than 25 cm.
```

\subsection{Possible influences on the test}
One thing that could have affected the tags is that we used a blackboard as a measure for positions. 
As there is metal in the blackboard this could have affected the precision on the tags.
Metals are conductors, which can lead to the signal having less power and reduced range, and the signal might spend extra time trying to get through the metal.
Since Pozyx positioning relies on calculating the time of flight, having the signal spend extra time travelling reduces accuracy \cite{pozyx-UWBObstacles}. 
\\\\
During the test with 1 tag, the 0 value of the $x$ coordinate coincided with the wall. 
This could have been an influence on the positing result in that it could increase uncertainty, as it was difficult to center the tag over the x coordinate since the coordinate collided with the wall.

> \subsection{Conclusion on the experiment}

Reviewer: Kan vi konkludere noget på de forskellige tags? ER nogle af dem skrald?

Our conclusion of this experiment is that the precision is satisfactory, but we need to do something about the update rate as that does not meet the standards of the refresh rate needed.
\\\\

> We also need to consider the spikes in the coordinate, so that the user does not jump around on screen, even though that the user does not move.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also need to consider the spikes in the coordinates, such that the user does not jump around on screen, even though the user might not be moving.
```

The min and max deviation of the $x$ coordinate was quite accurate with a largest distance of around 20 cm, but mostly less than 10 cm.
The $y$ coordinate fluctuated more, but was still less than 25 cm.

\subsection{Possible influences on the test}
One thing that could have affected the tags is that we used a blackboard as a measure for positions. 
As there is metal in the blackboard this could have affected the precision on the tags.
Metals are conductors, which can lead to the signal having less power and reduced range, and the signal might spend extra time trying to get through the metal.
Since Pozyx positioning relies on calculating the time of flight, having the signal spend extra time travelling reduces accuracy \cite{pozyx-UWBObstacles}. 
\\\\
During the test with 1 tag, the 0 value of the $x$ coordinate coincided with the wall. 
This could have been an influence on the positing result in that it could increase uncertainty, as it was difficult to center the tag over the x coordinate since the coordinate collided with the wall.
\\\\
While the experiment was running the tags could throw errors instead of giving a position if something went wrong.

> Mainly doing the multi tag tests some tags would report bag with errors such as unable to get firmware version, flash memory corrupted and an error message saying there was no error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mainly during the multi tag tests some tags would report back with errors such as unable to get firmware version, flash memory corrupted or an error message saying there was no error.
```

> At that point of the experiment it was not clear whether it was an hardware error with some of the tags or if it was code related.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At that point of the experiment it was not clear whether it was a hardware error with some of the tags or if it was code related.
```

> The tags would throw these errors randomly and then report back there position like normal at the next update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tags would throw these errors randomly and then report back their position like normal at the next update.
```

> This resulted in some of the tags had periods of update rates of less than 0.2 Hz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This resulted in some of the tags having periods of update rates of less than 0.2 Hz.
```

> Further investigation into this issue was decided to be conducted at a later point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was decided that further investigation into this issue should be conducted at a later point.
```

\section{Experiment with Pozyx}
In order to determine the accuracy of the Pozyx tags we conducted an experiment.

> The primary goal of the experiment was to test the accuracy, but a by-product of the experiment was to determine the frequencies of updates for each tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The primary goal of the experiment was to test the accuracy, but a by-product of the experiment was to determine the frequencies of updates for each tag.
According to research regarding latency in VR \cite{WaltemateThomas2016Tiol} and interactive systems \cite{10.1145/169059.169431} the number of movement errors increase as the latency increases.
According to experiments with VR, the motor performance and sense of body ownership start to decrease at latencies above 75 ms.
This means that the optimal results from these experiments would indicate that the Pozyx system is able to give a refresh rate which allows the system to operate with a latency of less than 75 ms between their physical movement and the in-game reflection of this movement.
```
